okay let's let's start with the facts
let's throw up this chart on screen here
real quick okay what do you see here
from 1960 to 2015 has poverty gotten
worse no inequality got worse but
inequality got worse only because the
rich got richer not because the poor
upward
these issues are emotive and people tend
to look at these charts and only see
what they want to see now Bernie Sanders
is no fool he avoids using the rhetoric
of saying that the rich are getting
richer and the poor getting poorer
because I think he is aware that it is
not true factually that the poor are
getting poorer but most people look at a
chart like this one and they just see
what they want to see if you look at the
bottom of the chart see the number zero
zero percent there for the poor to be
getting poorer their lines would have to
be below zero because this is a chart
showing average real household income
growth the growth the percentage growth
they're all growing they're all growing
above zero percent ten percent twenty
percent and so on okay this chart is
showing you that the poor are getting
less poor in the United States of
America right but the rich are getting
richer much much more rapidly look at
this chart very easy to be emotive about
this very easy to be irrational but what
does this actually show yes this shows
that the top 1% have become
spectacularly wealthy they've become
much much more wealthy in this span of
time and note that this chart ends in
the year 2007 or 2008 for whatever
reason this is not as as current not as
up-to-date a chart okay but what does
this show about the poor the poor are
not getting poorer between 1960 and the
present inequality has gotten worse in
America but not poverty inequality and
poverty are two very different things
right now in the Democratic primaries in
the debates for who will be the next
president in States the debates for who
will be the figurehead leader of
America's left-wing mainstream party
lies are being told about this
constantly and the problem is not just
that those lies they're factually wrong
the problem is that they're misleading
they really lead to a false perception
of what America's problems are and very
false assumptions about what the
solutions are what the outcomes will be
the red line on this chart is the really
important line it says consumption
poverty now what does that mean the word
consumption has many meanings in English
consumption poverty so I my university
degree my first Universe degree is
political science I learned this in the
classroom from the textbook it was
covered very briefly into the university
kitchen and then I learned it in the
real world when I went to Cambodia and
did social science research there in the
nonprofit humanitarian sector okay the
most important way to measure poverty is
by people's consumption so in the United
States of America you might ask
questions like do you own shoes how many
years have you been wearing the same
pair of shoes do you eat in restaurants
how many times this month
have you eaten in a restaurant how much
money in total have you spent eating a
restaurant and then you have to
calibrate the statistics you've got to
reflect what is the standard of poverty
in that society in the United States of
America poor people can't eat in
restaurants or can't eat there regularly
poor people have to pack a sandwich and
take it with them to save money so they
don't eat lunch in a restaurant now this
is almost universal in different
societies you're going to be measuring
different levels of poverty in the
United States it's accepted without
questioning it that a person can own a
car and still be considered poor they
can have a person who owns a car and
owns many pairs of shoes and eats in a
restaurant and that they're still poor
so how you calibrate it where you set
the
offline for someone being in poverty
versus not in poverty is significant but
the way to measure that is by measuring
consumption not not by measuring income
not through relative measures of poverty
if use relative poverty the bottom
twenty percent of people are then always
going to be poor you get a
self-fulfilling prophecies - this way
when we were in Cambodia I remember
debating this with my boss the measures
of poverty he really favored were things
like the roof of your house what is the
roof what material is the roof of your
house made of which is interesting
picture of poverty you know do you own a
cellular phone or not things like this
because his experience we came about in
societies with the first things people
would spend money on as soon as they had
some security as soon as that a little
bit of income - a little bit of income -
waste they would improve the tiling on
their roof that access do with the
torrential rain that it's so loud it's
so noisy the rain beating down on the
other of your house so when you look at
the red line on this chart what you see
is a dramatic dramatic decline in
poverty since the Year 1960 okay and the
black line there is some decline but
that's been wavering along it's
relatively relatively stagnant okay that
sharp sharp decline on the red line you
cannot cannot say honestly that the poor
are getting poorer in the United States
of America that is false
okay the poor have become there the poor
have become dramatically fewer in number
or you can say the poor are less and
less poor however we are in a period of
time in which the rich get richer now
there was a quotation I copied out here
someone claimed at the latest Democrat
Party primary debates that we have had
40 years of no economic growth for 90%
of the people
[Laughter]
that's not that's not what this chart
shows not the first person try to debunk
these myths here is a quotation from The
Washington Post by meg Kelly the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office
reported that the bottom four quintiles
so the poor four-fifths of society saw
an average income growth of 32% between
1979 and 2015 before transfers and taxes
if you include the difference made by
taxes and transfers then the middle
three quintiles saw a 46 percent
increase in income but the poorest of
the poor the lowest quintile the lowest
quintile saw a 79 percent increase in
income during that span of time 1979 to
2015 so the rhetoric within the Democrat
Party within the mainstream left and of
course it's even worse on the far left
amongst the extremists the rhetoric has
fundamentally become detached from
reality
now the other canard the other excuse
that's given to direct us away from
these facts and to keep using this meme
this false mean this misleading meme
that the problem with United States
America is that the rich are getting
richer and the poor getting poorer
it's not so is to say oh well even if
you think the poor doing okay you know
with Donald Trump's America the current
economy even if you think that it's not
true because they're working such long
hours they're working multiple jobs look
at this chart what do you what do you
see about that what do you see there
yeah it's not true
it is not true believe it or not the
rich people the rich people are really
the purple line those are this extremely
wealthy we get several different levels
of rich people rich people are working
longer hours okay I don't find that
surprising in the past
rich people relied another human beings
health amount they had servants and
secretaries increase now if you meet
people who are millionaires not multi
billionaires because people of over a
million dollars they do everything
themselves they don't have a secretary
they don't have a travel agent they use
their computers and they book everything
themselves they do all the work
themselves I think it's really true
you know high-income people whether they
be medical doctors or architects or
owners of small businesses they network
very very long hours and that's what
this that's what this chart shows the
people who are working shorter hours are
the red line so the red line here this
isn't the poorest of the poor you can
see if you look at this is the relative
poor and this is the the majority of
society they are not working long term
for how hers you can see very clearly
the trend and especially interestingly
the the trend in in recent years so um
what's the problem with this approach
I'm saying this partly because I want to
set up a discussion of issues in the
future video probably the next video I
make um the problem is that the quality
of life people have in America is
absolutely awful
and that problem cannot be sold by
raising the wages of employees at Amazon
from $14 and 25 cents per hour to $15 an
hour it's not going to make that kind of
difference it's not gonna make that
dramatically difference for the people
at Amazon it's not gonna make that
dramatic a difference for the people at
Disneyland either I followed those
arguments very closely when Bernie
Sanders presented them and even the
particular case studies he presented
were really misleading and dishonest I
do completely sympathize with the the
movement to raise minimum which I
completely sympathize with it but you
know have you been to Los Angeles have
have you been to San Francisco why are
there huge numbers of homeless people on
the streets it's not because of the
difference between $14 an hour and $15
an hour for people who already have a
steady job at Amazon or Disney World
it's not okay obviously anyone talked to
anyone who has real-world experience
working with the homeless in the 21st
century
obviously the single most outstanding
issue is drug addiction including
addiction to painkillers as well as you
know recreational drugs illicit drugs
illegal drugs okay drug addiction is an
enormous vector for homelessness
vagrancy and extreme poverty in the
United States of America there's no
denying it what is it that makes life so
unpleasant for the working poor so you
know now not talk
about vagrants they're almost people for
the working poor in the United States
America one of the single greatest
issues is public transportation Los
Angeles is hell everyone needs to own a
car and working poor people they may be
spending 50 percent of their income on
their car and car related expenses you
know making the down payments on their
car and insurance and yet a some extent
fuel gasoline is relatively cheap these
days you know the cost imposed on the
buying a car and the misery of having to
drive more than an hour every day back
and forth to work this is a huge cost
imposed on the whole society due to
having terrible infrastructure and this
is true in Los Angeles it's true in
Detroit it's true in many parts the
Unites States life is not like that in
the South of France if you ask why is
the quality of life higher in the South
of France it's not something simple like
oh well it's the minimum wage it's not
something simple like oh it's Andrew
Yang's crazy idea of having universal
basic income in the South of France they
have a beach the train goes right up to
the beach you can get out of the Train
you can pay $5 to take the train you
know it's not free but it's cheap
obviously built at taxpayers expense etc
and poor people and rich people alike
can take their kid and get on the train
and get out get out and go swimming on
the beach the poor and the millionaire's
alike all enjoy this you know this
natural splendor thanks to the
government building infrastructure that
enables it okay why is life better in
the south of France
than it is in Los Angeles because of the
cost of education because of the cost of
health care and I'll just I'll just
throw this this chart up on screen
everyone knows this right this is the
misery of modern life in America and
this absolutely will not be broached it
will not be solved it will not be
improved by raising minimum wage nor
through Andrew Yang's you know universal
basic income proposal okay and this is
not even talking about rent one of the
most fundamental miseries in the 21st
century is the cost of rent and no
government wants it wants to deal with
it neither left-wing no right when
nobody neither Democrat nor Republican
nobody wants to talk about how
can really help the poor by having you
know housing that works with them
housing that doesn't require them to
drive two hours back and forth their
place of employment housing that doesn't
cost them 50 percent of their income etc
etc this is a huge crushing problem in
the United States of America and this it
is in some other countries around the
world high ranch crisis is not universal
and there are government policies to
deal with it okay the most fundamentally
dangerous element of the left-wing
blaming the problem on the rich are
getting richer the poor getting poorer
this false this factually false meme
their statement of the problem is
misleadingly
simplistic and this is training public
opinion to endorse and commit to
solutions that are even more
misleadingly simplistic indeed in my
opinion dangerously so
you